Merge and Update Remove and Delete patterns (#356)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/experimental/delete-pattern/index.mdx

---

title: Delete / Remove pattern

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Deleting is a destructive action. To protect user resources, your product should support ‘undo’ where possible.
```

We need to add a description back in, this is used in the search results that shows up.

Author: Thanks for this Alison

<AnchorLink>Remove Low impact</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Anatomy</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

### Delete / Remove variations

| Action | Variation       | Description                                                                                                               |
| ------ | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Delete | _High impact_   | Action can't be reversed and causes significant loss. The user types the resource name into the modal to confim deletion. |
|        | _Medium impact_ | Action can't be reversed and causes some loss. The user sees a modal and confirms the consequence of deletion.            |
|        | _Low impact_    | Action is reversible or very low impact. A confirmation modal may not be required.                                        |
| Remove | _Medium impact_ | Action can't be reversed and causes some loss. The user sees a modal and confirms the consequence of removal.             |
|        | _Low impact_    | Action is reversible or very low impact. A confirmation modal may not be required.                                        |

> ## Delete High impact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## High impact deletion
```

A high-impact deletion cannot be reversed. The action would result in a significant loss for a user if done accidentally.

When deleting is high-impact, a confirmation dialog should be presented to the user which displays:

- The name of the resource
- Consequences of the deletion

> - "This action cannot be undone."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This action cannot be undone.
```

> - "An editable text field for the name of the resource to be entered"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An editable text field for the name of the resource to be entered
```

For high-impact scenarios, a user should confirm the action by manually entering the name of the resource. The 'Delete' button is enabled when the text entered perfectly matches the resource name.

Optionally a [Done modal](#done-modal), [Requested modal](#requested-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action (or a combination of one modal and a notification).

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![The user enters the resource name in order to confirm deletion.](images/2.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  The user needs to enter the resource name in order to confirm deletion.
</Caption>

![When the resource name is entered the Delete button is enabled.](images/3.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  When the resource name is entered the Delete button is enabled.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ## Delete Medium impact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Medium-impact deletion
```

A medium-impact deletion is one that cannot be reversed, but would not be catastrophic if done accidentally. When deleting is medium-impact, a confirmation dialog should be presented to the user which displays:

- The name of the resource
- Consequences of the deletion

> - "The action cannot be undone."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The action cannot be undone.
```

Optionally an [Optional passive modal](#optional-passive-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action (or a combination of one modal and a notification).

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of a standard delete modal](images/6.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Example of a medium impact delete modal](images/6.png)
```

<Caption>An example of a standard delete modal</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ## Delete Low impact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Low-impact deletion
```

> Requiring the user to confirm deletion is generally recommended. However, in very low impact situations, such as when an ‘undo’ option is available, user confirmation may not be required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Requiring the user to confirm deletion is generally recommended. However, in low impact situations, or when an ‘undo’ option is available, user confirmation may not be required.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of delete options in context without warnings for low impact delete actions](images/LowImpactDelete.png)

<Caption> Low impact delete options</Caption>
</Column>
</Row>

## Remove Medium impact

> Removing has a medium impact when the action can't be reversed, but would not be catastrophic if done accidentally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Removing has a medium impact when the action can't be reversed, and could have some impact if done accidentally.
```

Text should tell the user the consequences of the removal and that the action cannot be undone.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a medium impact remove modal](images/first-view.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  Removal modals should include consequences of removal, and "This action cannot
  be undone" statement.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Remove Low impact

As removing does not destroy an asset, typically user confirmation is not required.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of remove options in context without warnings for low impact remove actions.](images/LowImpactRemove.png)

<Caption> Example low impact remove options</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Anatomy

### Optional passive modal

In high or medium impact flows, an optional passive modal can be used to signify the state at the end of a remove or delete action.

> Some deletion or removal actions don't happen immediately. When this is the case, you can use the optional requested modal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some deletion or removal actions don't happen immediately, in these situations it's recommended to inform the user through the optional passive modal.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a delete successful modal](images/Requested.png)

> <Caption> Use a success modal to show that deleting is complete.</Caption>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Caption> Use a success modal to show that a delete request has been made / is in progress.</Caption>
```

---

title: Delete / Remove pattern

---

### _Deleting_ is a destructive action. To protect user resources, your product should support ‘undo’ where possible. If ‘undo’ support is impossible, request user confirmation before deleting a resource or asset.

> ### _Removal_ is a non-destructive action. A user can remove an asset from a list or item without destroying it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### _Removing_ is a non-destructive action. A user can remove an asset from a list or item without destroying it.
```

| ------ | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Delete | _High impact_   | Action can't be reversed and causes significant loss. The user types the resource name into the modal to confim deletion. |
|        | _Medium impact_ | Action can't be reversed and causes some loss. The user sees a modal and confirms the consequence of deletion.            |
|        | _Low impact_    | Action is reversible or very low impact. A confirmation modal may not be required.                                        |
| Remove | _Medium impact_ | Action can't be reversed and causes some loss. The user sees a modal and confirms the consequence of removal.             |
|        | _Low impact_    | Action is reversible or very low impact. A confirmation modal may not be required.                                        |

## Delete High impact

A high-impact deletion cannot be reversed. The action would result in a significant loss for a user if done accidentally.

> When deleting is medium-impact, a confirmation dialog should be presented to the user which displays:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When deleting is high-impact, a confirmation dialog should be presented to the user which displays:
```

- The name of the resource
- Consequences of the deletion

> - "This action cannot be undone."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- "This action cannot be undone."
- "An editable text field for the name of the resource to be entered"
```

For high-impact scenarios, a user should confirm the action by manually entering the name of the resource. The 'Delete' button is enabled when the text entered perfectly matches the resource name.

> A [Done modal](#done-modal), [Requested modal](#requested-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Optionally a [Done modal](#done-modal), [Requested modal](#requested-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action (or a combination of one modal and a notification).
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![The user enters the resource name in order to confirm deletion.](images/2.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  The user needs to enter the resource name in order to confirm deletion.
</Caption>

![When the resource name is entered the Delete button is enabled.](images/3.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  When the resource name is entered the Delete button is enabled.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Delete Medium impact

A medium-impact deletion is one that cannot be reversed, but would not be catastrophic if done accidentally. When deleting is medium-impact, a confirmation dialog should be presented to the user which displays:

- The name of the resource
- Consequences of the deletion
- "The action cannot be undone."

> A [Done modal](#done-modal), [Requested modal](#requested-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Optionally a [Done modal](#done-modal), [Requested modal](#requested-modal) or [Notification](#notification) can be used to confirm the action (or a combination of one modal and a notification).
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of delete options in context without warnings for low impact delete actions](images/LowImpactDelete.png)

<Caption> Low impact delete options</Caption>
</Column>
</Row>

## Remove Medium impact

Removing has a medium impact when the action can't be reversed, but would not be catastrophic if done accidentally.

Text should tell the user the consequences of the removal and that the action cannot be undone.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a medium impact remove modal](images/first-view.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  Removal modals should include consequences of removal, and "This action cannot
  be undone" statement.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Remove Low impact

As removing does not destroy an asset, typically user confirmation is not required.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of remove options in context without warnings for low impact remove actions.](images/LowImpactRemove.png)

<Caption> Example low impact remove options</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

## Anatomy

> ### Success modal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Optional passive modal
```

> In high or medium impact flows, an optional final dialog can be used to signify success at the end of a remove or delete action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In high or medium impact flows, an optional passive modal can be used to signify the state at the end of a remove or delete action.
This is particularly useful when the deletion or removal doesn't happen immediately, or a request has to be sent to trigger that action. 
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of a delete successful modal](images/DoneSerious.png)

Reviewer 3: I would switch this to the delete request one instead.

Author: Ok, will do. Just got to figure out how to make the change!

<Caption> Use a success modal to show that deleting is complete.</Caption>

![Example of a remove successful modal](images/DoneMedium.png)

<Caption> Use a success modal to show that removing is complete.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Notification

> Use an optional notification to confirm a delete or remove action is completed. This is useful when the action takes more than a few moments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An optional notification can be used to confirm a delete or remove action has completed. This is useful when the action takes more than a few moments.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a successful delete notification](images/7_updated.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  An optional notification can be used to confirm the delete or remove action
  with medium or high impact actions.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Requested modal

Reviewer 3: I would remove this whole section (as my previous suggestion is to make the success modal section an optional passive modal section which would encompass this)

Author: Will also follow this one up

Some deletion or removal actions don't happen immediately. When this is the case, you can use the optional requested modal.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Deletion or Removal requested modal example](images/Requested.png)

<Caption>
  {' '}
  An optional extra Deletion requested or Removal requested modal can be added
  to medium or high impact workflows.
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> ### Positioning

Reviewer 3: I'd remove this whole section

Author: Do you mean the "positioning" section?
